# Cloud_Resume_Project

It would be an understatement to say I was extremely nervous when Professor Lontok assigned us this cloud resume project as our final. For those unfamiliar with the expression of “having a green thumb,” it means that you have a knack for being a gardener and fostering the growth of your plants. Everything you touch seems to end up strong and healthy. However there is a counterpart to this saying called a “brown thumb.” I was wholeheartedly convinced that I had the “brown thumb” for anything that has to do with code. It wasn’t like I had no experience in coding either. I’ve taken multiple coding courses all throughout my college life and even did my own practice over the summer. However, every line of code I wrote seemed to break. So, you can only imagine the pit I felt in my stomach when it was announced that our final project, worth 15% of my grade, was to code a website from scratch using programs I’ve never even heard of. 

So, similar to Daniel Singletary in his “Plumbers guide to Cloud,” let's do this one step at a time. Thanks to my professor and my friends in my class, I knew I wasn’t alone. The first step in the resume challenge was establishing our domain which I did under lawjeremy.com and registering it under Route 53 using HTTPS. In doing so, this added an extra layer of security to my website as it encrypts my website using TLS. Once this was done, I deployed my domain into an AWS S3 static website. I had heard of AWS before but had never used it, so the in-depth instructions I received from Professor Lontok gave me confidence in what I was doing. Not only did I have instructions on how to do every step, but what each step meant as well. S3 is essentially a storage service that allows anyone to reliably reach my domain whenever they want. 

The next step was to create an API that was able to send requests to a table  that counts the number of visitors that entered my site and display it on the front page. We accomplished this using DynamoDB. Amazon DynamoDB is a NoSQL database service that lets users create database tables that are able to retrieve and store data. This is where we created our tables that would hold the visitor count. In order to do this however, I had to use JSON and Javascript to create a script that increments the counter every time someone visits my website. Though it was short lived, I felt a sense of ease as Javascript was something I was familiar with. Finally, in this sea of new concepts and programs, I had something tangible I felt I knew I could do myself. It was also really fun to see how so many different programs and languages can so seamlessly interact with each other to reach a common goal when finally done correctly. 

AWS Lambda was then used for the API that communicated requests between the DynamoDB tables and the website itself. This was perfect since Lambda is a serverless computing service that allows you to run code automatically in response to events that happen on your website, like new visitors. Once this was completed I saw the visitor count on my website and felt a sense of relief and accomplishment rush over me. I was almost there. The final steps revolved around finding a suitable HTML/CSS resume template that presented my resume in all of its glory. After going through Daneil Singletary’s Blog post and resume, I really liked the way his was formatted since it wasn’t too flashy but got the job done in a clean and professional fashion. Thus I found the HTML/CSS template online, downloaded it, and got to work. 

This final part was pretty fun to do on my own. I got through it the same way I did all of my other CS assignments: trial, error, grief, and finally figuring it out. Reconfiguring the code to suit my liking took quite a bit of time as I kept running into unexplainable problems where aesthetic features like lines would randomly disappear when certain strings were too long. Nonetheless, I figured it out after a lot of trial and error and ended up with something I was genuinely really proud of. The final step in this project was to rename the file to “index.html” and copy and paste my visitor count code into my new index file. 

Once everything was complete, all I had to do was override the previous index.html file with my new one and pat myself on the back. Overall, I really enjoyed this project as it thrusted me out of my comfort zone in a controlled setting. At any step of the process I had resources I could reach out for help while also having the freedom to experiment on my own. Moving forward from this project, I realized that my brown thumb may not be as brown as I thought it was and that with enough time and effort, you can get anything down. Thanks Professor Lontok. 
